(DOCSP-36718) Confirm signatures on Atlas CLI packages (#304)
mongodb/docs-atlas-cli: source/verify-packages.txt

.. _verify-packages:

==========================================
Verify Integrity of {+atlas-cli+} Packages
==========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

The {+atlas-cli+} release team digitally signs all software packages and
container images to certify that a particular package is valid and
unaltered. Before installing the {+atlas-cli+}, you should validate the 
package using the provided PGP signature, SHA-256 checksum, or 

> `Cosign <https://github.com/sigstore/cosign>`__ information.

Reviewer: Is this required for MacOs? If it applies only to a subset of operating systems, maybe we should call that out.

Author: No, it's just for Linux, Windows, and Docker. I'll call that out here

            
         .. output::

            gpg: Signature made Thu Mar 14 08:25:00 2024 EDT
            gpg:                using RSA key <key-value-long>
            gpg: Good signature from "Atlas CLI Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>" [unknown]

      If the package is properly signed, but you do not currently trust
      the signing key, ``gpg`` also returns the following message :

      .. code-block::

         gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
         gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.

.. _verify-packages-windows:

Verify Windows Packages
-----------------------

The following procedure verifies the {+atlas-cli+} package against its 
SHA-256 key.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Download the {+atlas-cli+} installation file.

      Download the {+atlas-cli+} ``.msi`` or ``.zip`` file from the 
      `MongoDB Download Center
      <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/atlascli>`__ or 
      `Github <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases>`__.

   .. step:: Save the public signature.

>       a. Open the ``checksums.txt`` file for the

Reviewer: Maybe download the checksums file for the release should be the first step and open should be second.

>          release, which returns the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         release, which contains the
```

>          SHA256 key. For example, for version {+atlas-cli-version+},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         SHA256 key for each file. For example, for version {+atlas-cli-version+},
```

>          download and open the following file: `https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases/download/atlascli%2Fv{+atlas-cli-version+}/checksums.txt <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases/download/atlascli%2Fv{+atlas-cli-version+}/checksums.txt>`__.

Reviewer: The formatting for this type of link isn't great.

Author: Agreed, fixed

>       #. Copy the text listed next to the file you downloaded. For 
>          example, if you downloaded ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``, 
>          copy the text next to 
>          ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``.
>          This is the SHA-256 key value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Copy the text listed to the left of the file you downloaded. For 
         example, if you downloaded ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``, 
         copy the text to the left of 
         ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``.
         This value is the SHA-256 key.
```

      #. Save the key value in a ``.txt`` file named ``atlas-cli-key``
         in your Downloads folder.

   .. step:: Compare the signature file to the {+atlas-cli+} installer hash.

      Run the Powershell command to verify the package based on the
      file you downloaded. 
      
      If you downloaded 
      ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``,

>       run the following command:

Reviewer: Should we say copy and paste and replace the version variable?

Author: Since these docs are versioned, this command and example should reflect the version of the docs they're looking at, so I think this works as-is, but I might be misunderstanding what you're suggesting here. The only reason I call this out is that the command differs based on whether they downloaded the .zip or the .msi

            <key-value-from-signature-file>
            <key-value-from-downloaded-package>
            True
            
      The command returns the key value from the signature file, the
      key value from the downloaded package, and ``True`` if the two
      values match.

      If the two values match, the {+atlas-cli+} binary is verified.

.. _verify-packages-docker:

Verify Docker Container Images
------------------------------

You can use `Cosign <https://github.com/sigstore/cosign>`__ to verify
MongoDB's signature for {+atlas-cli+} container images.

To verify MongoDB's container signature, perform the following steps:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Download and install Cosign.

      **Example: MacOS**

      .. code-block::

         brew install cosign

      For full installation instructions, see `Cosign 
      <https://github.com/sigstore/cosign>`__.

   .. step:: Download the {+atlas-cli+} container image's public key

      .. code-block::

         curl https://cosign.mongodb.com/atlas-cli.pem  > atlas-cli.pem

   .. step:: Verify the signature.

      Run the following command to verify the signature by tag:

      .. io-code-block::

>          .. input::
>             

Reviewer: The following command isn't copyable in staging right now.

```suggestion
         .. input::
            :copyable: true
            
```

.. _verify-packages:

==========================================

> Verify Integrity of {+atlas-cli+} Packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the Integrity of {+atlas-cli+} Packages
```

==========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

The {+atlas-cli+} release team digitally signs all software packages and
container images to certify that a particular package is valid and
unaltered. Before you install the {+atlas-cli+} packages for Linux,

> Windows, or Docker, you should validate the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows, or Docker, validate the 
```

package using the provided PGP signature, SHA-256 checksum, or 
`Cosign <https://github.com/sigstore/cosign>`__ information.

.. _verify-packages-linux:

Verify Linux Packages
---------------------

MongoDB signs each release branch with a different PGP key. The public 
key files for the lastest {+atlas-cli+} release is available for
download from the `key server <https://pgp.mongodb.com/>`_. 

The following procedure verifies the {+atlas-cli+} package against its 

> PGP/GPG key.

Reviewer: **Style:** See [Slashes](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#slashes).

```suggestion
PGP or GPG key.
```

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Download the {+atlas-cli+} installation file.

      Download the {+atlas-cli+} binaries from the 
      `MongoDB Download Center
      <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/atlascli>`__
      based on your Linux environment. Click :guilabel:`Copy link` and
      use the URL in the following instructions.

      For example, to download the ``{+atlas-cli-version+}`` release

>       for Linux through the shell, run this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      for Linux through the shell, run the following command:
```

   .. step:: Download and import the key file.

      Run the following command to download and import the key file:

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable: true

         .. input::

            curl -LO https://pgp.mongodb.com/atlas-cli.asc
            gpg --import atlas-cli.asc
            
         .. output::

            gpg: key <key-value-short>: public key "Atlas CLI Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>" imported
            gpg: Total number processed: 1
            gpg:               imported: 1

   .. step:: Verify the {+atlas-cli+} installation file.

      Run the following command to verify the installation file:

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable: true

         .. input::

            gpg --verify mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_linux_x86_64.tar.gz.sig mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_linux_x86_64.tar.gz
            
         .. output::

            gpg: Signature made Thu Mar 14 08:25:00 2024 EDT
            gpg:                using RSA key <key-value-long>
            gpg: Good signature from "Atlas CLI Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>" [unknown]

>       If the package is properly signed, but you do not currently trust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the package is properly signed, but you don't currently trust
```

      the signing key, ``gpg`` also returns the following message :

      .. code-block::

         gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
         gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.

.. _verify-packages-windows:

Verify Windows Packages
-----------------------

The following procedure verifies the {+atlas-cli+} package against its 
SHA-256 key.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Download the {+atlas-cli+} installation file.

      Download the {+atlas-cli+} ``.msi`` or ``.zip`` file from the 
      `MongoDB Download Center
      <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/atlascli>`__ or 

>       `Github <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases>`__.
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: Extra line returns.

```suggestion
      `Github <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases>`__.

```

   .. step:: Save the public signature.

      a. Download the ``checksums.txt`` file for the
         release from `Github 
         <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases>`__,
         which contains the SHA-256 key for each file. For example, for
         version {+atlas-cli-version+},
         download the `{+atlas-cli-version+} checksums.txt file
         <https://github.com/mongodb/mongodb-atlas-cli/releases/download/atlascli%2Fv{+atlas-cli-version+}/checksums.txt>`__.
      #. Open the ``checksums.txt`` file and copy the text listed to
         the left of the package you downloaded.
         For example, if you downloaded ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``, 
         copy the text to the left of
         ``mongodb-atlas-cli_{+atlas-cli-version+}_windows_x86_64.zip``.
         This value is the SHA-256 key value.

>       #. Save the key value in a ``.txt`` file named ``atlas-cli-key``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Save the SHA-256 key value in a ``.txt`` file named ``atlas-cli-key``
```
